### week14 Writting

Let's say you are a moderately experienced Linux user, and you want to install an application off the Internet but it doesn't have a nice package that works on your system. (If it does have a package, install it following the instructions on InstallingSoftware.)

A lot of users, even quite experienced ones, have issues with going from the tarball to the installed program because they just do not know the fairly easy steps required to get the job done. But it's only easy if you already know how to do it! So, here's a quick guide about how to install stuff from developer sites. 
I found a pretty neat tool called Unity Tweak Tool inside the Ubuntu Software app that allows for Ubuntu desktop customization. I'm not entirely sure to go about making a 500 word documentation of me just messing around with the GUI settings so I will go on a bit about X Windows. Windows Manager is a core component of the Linux system. Having spent all my life on Windows I take the way a GUI works for granted. It's been about 30 years since the first X Windows manager and there still does not seem to be a true consensus on what is the optimal window manager. X operates in a server-client model. Any applications that wish to interact with x is a client. A window manager is just a regular user process. A window manager communicates with with the windows it manages through properties and events, which means the manager communicates through windows x and not with the application. X was designed to be as low level as possible, as can be seen with some of the more minimalistic interfaces out there. There is a heirardchy for windows, at the base of that heirarchy is the root window. This is basically an invisible window that covers the extent of the screen. Top level windows are children of the root one, and elements of that window are its children. For example in a search menu, the window itself is a child of the root, where as all the icons, such as the magnifying glass, the search bar and such are a child on the window. Window Manager needs to needs to intercept requests such as window resize, dragging and the likes. The mechanism that allows this to happen is called substructure redirection. basically a window must apply for window redirecition on the root window. X server only allows ofr one window redirect at a time. This prevents two or more window managers from running similtaniously on the same screen. The title bars in windows, the close and minimize buttons, etc are not created by the application, but by the window manager in a mode called reparenting, or framing. This allows windows manager to draw differnt window decorations and the likes across multiple windows for consistancy. However there are some window managers that are a fuddy duddy buzzkill and do not reparent at all. These are called non-reparenting windows. A couple of reasons for this would be A) They hate fun and are probably nazis. B) Some compositing window managers do not need to reparent at all. Compositing window manager is a relatively new thing that launched sometime around 2005. With the advent of new technology came the ability to create much more memory intensive interfaces. The composite extention allows things to not render directy to hardware but to a special buffer maintained by the x. This buffer can be used by the client that made the request. It asks x to render the top window to an off-screen memory buffer. Things like translucency, shadowing and animation all need to be used in this buffer created. However and window manager needs to support composite and non composite modes to accomidate for unsupported or outdated hardware, so as far as I know many choose to have the ability to reparent windows.
